Temporal Selves Chat Prototype

This repository contains a web-based prototype that allows participants to:

Define a Past Self and/or a Future Self

Chat with the Past Self and/or the Future Self

Reflect on the conversations

The overall interaction flow is fixed, while content, framing, and wording are customizable.

Interaction Flow

The app follows a three-step interaction sequence:

Customize
Participants define their Past Self and/or Future Self.

Chat
Participants interact with the Past Self and/or Future Self as conversational agents.

Reflection
Participants reflect on the conversations they have just completed.

⚠️ The order of these steps should not be changed.

Customization and Adaptation

This prototype is designed to be adapted for different research contexts.
You are encouraged to use your creativity and research judgment to modify the app based on your research needs.

You may customize, for example:

Wording and framing
(e.g., how the selves are described or introduced)

What can be customized by participants
(e.g., adding avatars, traits, values, or other attributes relevant to your study)

Conversation topics or guidance
(e.g., what the Past/Future Self focuses on in the dialogue)

The visual appearance of the website
(e.g., layout, hierarchy, or styling)

Throughout the codebase, you will see comments marked:

STUDENT-EDITABLE ZONE


These indicate areas that are safe to modify without breaking the core interaction flow.

Getting Started
1. Fork the Repository

Click Fork on GitHub and work from your own copy.

2. Set Up a Project on Data Foundry

Create a project on Data Foundry:
https://data.id.tue.nl/documentation/index

Then create a file called .env.local in the repository root with your own Project ID and API key, for example:

DF_PROJECT_ID=your_project_id_here
DF_API_KEY=your_api_key_here


⚠️ Do not commit this file.
⚠️ The app will not work without a valid Project ID and API key.

You may use GitHub Codespaces if you prefer not to run the project locally.

3. Adjust the Prototype for Your Research

Modify the scripts, prompts, and interface based on your research questions and methods.

Typical adjustments include:

Reframing the Past and Future selves

Changing what participants are asked to reflect on

Adding or removing customization fields

Adjusting conversational guidance or safeguards

4. Make the Website Available to Participants

If you want to share the web app with participants, you can deploy it using Data Foundry.

Please refer to the official documentation:
https://data.id.tue.nl/documentation/index
